List of all passive and active systems included;

Active
1. Automatic Blinds
2. Temperature Controlled Fans
3. Motion sensing Light

Passive
1. House Orientation
2. Insulation
3. Air Circulation

Automatic Blinds, the purpose of automatic blinds is to block light and heat from entering the house when it's unwanted, at certain times of 
the day the house should close the blinds to allow for the house to maintain its current temperature. 
As DIYBlinds.com.au puts it "This means you’re better able to keep the hot air out in summer, and the heat in during winter".
Heating or cooling is one of the largest consumers of energy, if you are able to automatically prevent heat from entering the house this will
help cut down the total cooling you need with a very minimal active system.

Temperature controlled fans help to keep the fans off for as long as possible, helping to prevent over use of fans, and keep the house at a
constant temperature, if used alongside other systems this can be very helpful to remove a lot of the need for more power heavy cooling
systems like aircon.

Motion sensing light steps away from conserving power in the heating/cooling area but is still very relevant, many time do people
accidentally leave lights on when they aren't using the room, or leave it on while they out of the house, using motion detecting lights this
helps to remove the need to double check and helps to make sure you're only using what you need.

House Orientation is a very important factor for people to take into account, if the house faces the right way and has enough Air Circulation
the Orientation can greatly improve the passive removal of heat, leading to saving energy. the Optimal Orientation of a house to achieve
cooling winds is north, this allows the front of the house to avoid direct lighting, which can cause a lot of unwanted heat to enter the
house, while also allowing cool wind to come from the south, helping to remove the heat via natural air flow.

Circulation is directly connected to the house Orientation, having the house orientation face to the north, along with having direct paths for
the air to flow with little disturbance helps to allow air to flow not only into but through the house, cooling the entire house by allowing
the air to flow through and in turn bring out the hot air inside.

the insulation is another thing that helps with not only heating but also cooling, the way insulation works is by acting as a block between
the house and the outside, this means that heat from outside will be significantly reduced along with heat loss during the winter, the right 
type of insulation can greatly improve the house's energy efficiency. 

